These are the Important Linux Commands we generally use in real time
LINUX CLASS-1
LINUX:
Linux is an free and Open-source operating system with high security. Linux is multi user
based OS.
OS: Operating System 
An Operating System (OS) is a software that acts as an interface between computer hardware
components and the user.
Every computer system must have at least one operating system to run other programs.
Applications like Browsers, MS Offi ce, Notepad Games, etc., need some environment to run
and perform its tasks.
TYPES OF OS:
Key Features of Linux:
Linux follows the open-source model.
Linux has multiuser and multitasking capabilities.
Security features.
Linux is used for servers, embedded systems, supercomputers, etc
LINUX OS DISTRIBUTIONS:
Many of the users taken the linux OS and modified according to their requirements and
released into the market with diff erent names called Linux distribution.
RedHat
Ubuntu
Debian
Centos
Fedora
Opensuse
Kali Linux
Amazon Linux
Rocky Linux 
HISTORY:
On Sep 17th 1991, Linus Torvalds a student at the university of Helsinki, Finland, He released
the first version of the Linux kernel, known as Linux 0.01, as open-source software.
The Linux kernel is written in C language.
 He wrote this program specially for his own PC 
Firstly he wanted to name it as 'Freax' but later it became 'Linux'. 
Today, supercomputers, smart phones, desktop, web servers, tablet, laptops and home
appliances like washing machines, DVD players, routers, modems, cars, refrigerators, etc
use Linux OS.
KERNEL:
It is the core or the heart of the operating system. It's the central part that manages and
facilitates communication between the computer's hardware and software.
SHELL:
A shell that allows users to interact with the operating system. There are two types of shells.
Command Line Interface (CLI): Executes the command provided by user given in the form
command and display the output in terminal.
Executes the process provided by user in graphical way and output is displayed in the
graphical window.
COMMAND:
It is an instruction/request given to the operating system by a user.
It tells computer to perform a particular task.
TERMINAL:
It is a text-based interface that allows you to interact with the operating system by typing
commands.
It's a way for you to communicate with the linux machines.
LETS DIVE INTO PRACTICAL SESSION:
By default we are in ec2-user, but if we want to perform any action we should be in root user
because, root is the ultimate king of linux, root has full permissions, so that we can run any
command anywhere.
To login as root user : sudo -i
Here sudo : super user do 
to logout from root user and go back to ec2-user : exit 
In Linux we have diff erent types of commands
SYSTEM COMMANDS
HARDWARE COMMANDS
FILE COMMANDS
PERMISSION COMMANDS
USER COMMANDS
SEARCH COMMANDS
NETWORKING COMMANDS
SYSTEM COMMANDS: Used to get system information
uname : used to get type of OS
uname -r : used to get kernel version of our OS
uname -a : used to get full info about OS
clear: this command is used to clear the clear (or) you can use ctrl + l as a short cut
uptime : used to get since how long our system is in running state
uptime -p : this will give only time
hostname: used to get private dns name of our system
hostname -i : used to get private ip of our system
hostnamectl set-hostname “swiggy” : used to change hostname
ip addr : used to get private IP
ip route : used to get private IP
ifconfig : used to get private IP
date : to get todays date 
timedatectl : used to get timezones 
timedatectl set-timezone Asia/Kolkata : used to change Timezone to IST
who : used to see how many users have been loggin into your system
whoami : used to see the current user.
ps : used to see the running processors in system
kill -9 PID : used to kill a processor
HARDWARE COMMANDS:
date Shows system date and timestamp
date +”%d” Prints day of the month (01-31)
date +”%m” Prints the month of the year 01-12
date +”%y” Prints only the last two digits of Year
date +”%H” Prints the hour 00-23
date +”%M” Prints the Minute of the hour 00-59
date +”%S” Prints the current seconds count in the
minute (00-60)
date +"%D" Prints Date in MM/DD/YY
date +”%F” Prints only the Full date as YYYY-MM-DD
date +”%A” Prints the Day of the Week Saturday￾Sunday
date +”%B” Prints the month between January￾December
who Prints information about default user in
our server
lscpu Displays information about the CPU
architecture
lsblk -a Lists the information about all the block
devices attached to the system
free Displays system memory(RAM) details in
KB
free -m Displays system memory(RAM) details in
MB
df -h Report file system disk space usage in human
readable languages
to check ipaddress : ip addr
ip route
ifconfig
Just Practicing
